# SNHU_CS_250
Software Development Lifecycle

This is the final project completed in this course where we took the role of a product owner, scrum master, and dev team member.  Included in this repository is a powerpoint created to inform the team of what Scrum-Agile was and how it compared to traditonal Waterfall aproaches.  The Sprint Review and Retrospective contains some reflective information on the Scrum-Agile process as well as some personal thoughts on the project.

Interpreting user needs and translating them into a project is essential in software development, one of the most effective ways to do this is through user stories.  The process involves taking feedback and translating user needs into a program.  User stories are a tool that helps simplify and clarify how to meet user needs.  They are short, simple descritons of a feature from a user's perspective.  Typically it is formated much like if, then, because but different to support individual needs.  A good format is **As a [type of user], I want [some goal] so that [some reason].**.  This provides a means of claifying user intentions, focusing on what the user wants to achieve rather then how the system would be built.  User stories allow incremental development, allowing you to create deliverable items that a user would look for, giving stakeholders a good perspective of application features at the end of each sprint.

When approaching program development, following a structured process helps ensure that your work is efficient, adaptable, and meets user needs.  Agile methodologies are particularly useful because they emphasize flexibility, collaboration, and incremental progress.  All problems start with the users needs, being user centric means you can prioritize projects to be user friendly, keeping the user in mind with everything from test cases to deliverables.  Several Scrum processes will be benefical to me in the future, items such as sprints (short dev periods between deliverables), Sprint Planning, Daily Standups (15 min daily meetings for communication), and retrospective.

Being a good team member in sofware development goes beyond just writing good code, it's about how you collaborate, communicate, and contribute to the overall success of the team.  Being reliable, communicating often and effectivly, being a team player, maintaining a feedback mentality, and empathy are some excellent core priciples of a good team member.  Reliability is all about trust, does the team trust you to arrive to work and be productive?  Communication is a corner stone to a good team as staying on the same page is important if team mebers plan on working together on an intertwined project.  Being a team player means embodying the core principle of accountablity for the entire team where teams succeed and fail together.  Feedback mentality is all about being open to feedback, understanding that feedback is a powerful tool for your personal development.  You can help with this by giving good, productive feedback and by being willing to accept and try someone elses feedback.  Empathy is a key principle to a good team, as being empathetic and understanding something from anothers perspective allows you a deeper understanding of you team.  A little patience and empathy go a long way in creating a supportive and productive team enviornment.  Everyone brings their best when they feel understood and supported, allowing them to bring their most authentic self.
